# Introduction to NVS Encryption

The flash encryption scheme does not directly protect the data stored in
the NVS partition. To protect the confidentiality of the data stored in
NVS partition, NVS encryption scheme should be used. NVS encryption can
be enabled through `menuconfig → Component config → NVS → Enable NVS encryption` or by calling `nvs_flash_secure_init()`.

The basic principle of the NVS encryption scheme is to define a
partition in the partition table with a size of no less than 4 KB and
the subtype of `nvs_key`. After enabling the NVS encryption scheme, the
NVS partition will be encrypted using the key in the `nvs_key`
partition. A typical partition table that supports NVS encryption is
shown below:

```
# Name,     Type,   SubType,    Offset, Size,   Flags
nvs,        data,   nvs,        ,       0x6000,
phy_init,   data,   phy,        ,       0x1000,
factory,    app,    factory,    ,       1M,
nvs_key,    data,   nvs_keys,   ,       0x1000, encrypted,
```

NVS encryption scheme is similar to the flash encryption scheme in many
ways, such as:

-   The encryption algorithm used by the NVS encryption scheme is the
    symmetric encryption algorithm AES-XTS. As mentioned earlier,
    symmetric encryption algorithm requires its key to be kept secret to
    ensure that the encrypted data cannot be analysed and cracked. The
    key of the NVS encryption scheme cannot be plaintext, so this scheme
    is often used together with the flash encryption scheme, where flash
    encryption is responsible for protecting the confidentiality of the
    `nvs_key`, while NVS encryption uses `nvs_key` to protect the
    confidentiality of the NVS partition.

-   There are two methods for storing the NVS encryption key: one is the
    manual method, that is, manually generate a key and write the key to
    the designated partition; the other is the automatic method, that
    is, when the NVS encryption scheme is first enabled and the
    `nvs_key` partition is empty, the device automatically calls the
    `nvs_flash_generate_keys()` function to generate the key, and then writes the key to the `nvs_key` partition, and subsequently uses the key to complete NVS encryption/decryption.

    The steps to manually store the NVS encryption key are as follows:

    First, generate a file containing the key by running the following
    command:

    <pre><code>$ <b>espsecure.py generate_flash_encryption_key my_nvs_encryption_key.bin</b></code></pre>

    Then, compile and burn the partition table with the following
    command:

    <pre><code>$ <b>idf.py -p (PORT) partition_table-flash</b></code></pre>

    Finally, burn the key to the specified partition with the following
    command:

    <pre><code>$ <b>parttool.py -p (PORT) --partition-table-offset "nvs_key partition offset" write_partition --partition-name="name of
    nvs_key partition" --input "nvs_key partition"</b></code></pre>

-   After enabling NVS encryption, APIs starting with `nvs_get` or
    `nvs_set` automatically perform data encryption/decryption when
    reading/writing data in the NVS partition.

Please note that when flash encryption is enabled, it is highly
recommended to also enable NVS encryption (which is enabled by default).
This is important because the Wi-Fi driver stores sensitive data, such
as SSID and password, in the default NVS partition. The NVS encryption
scheme allows for the use of different keys (`nvs_key`) in different NVS
partitions. When initialising a specific NVS partition, you only need to
specify the corresponding `nvs_key`.

> 📌 **Tip**
>
> Visit <https://bookc3.espressif.com/nvs> for further information about NVS encryption.
