# Flash Encryption Process

After flashing the plaintext firmware to the device with flash
encryption enabled for the first time, and subsequently starting the
device, the flash encryption feature will be automatically enabled. The
following outlines the basic workflow for the initial automatic enabling
of flash encryption:

1.  Firmware bootloader reads the `SPI_BOOT_CRYPT_CNT` eFuse value. If
    flash encryption is not enabled, the bootloader will enable flash
    encryption. By default, the value is 0, meaning flash encryption is
    not enabled yet.

2.  Bootloader checks if `BLOCK_KEY` stores the flash encryption key. If
    the key is not pre-flashed (see Section 13.3.3), it will be
    generated automatically and written to `BLOCK_KEY`. The write and
    read protection bits for `BLOCK_KEY` will be set, so that software
    cannot access the key.

3.  Flash encryption block encrypts the flash contents &ndash; the firmware
    bootloader, applications and partitions marked as `encrypted`.

4.  Firmware bootloader sets the first available bit in
    `SPI_BOOT_CRYPT_CNT` to 1 to mark the flash contents as encrypted.

5.  In Development mode, `SPI_BOOT_CRYPT_CNT` and
    `DIS_DOWNLOAD_MANUAL_ENCRYPT` are not write-protected. The firmware bootloader allows to disable flash encryption and re-flash encrypted binaries.

6.  In Release mode, `SPI_BOOT_CRYPT_CNT` and
    `DIS_DOWNLOAD_MANUAL_ENCRYPT` are write-protected. Flash encryption
    is enabled permanently and re-flashing firmware is forbidden.

7.  The device is rebooted to start executing the encrypted bootloader
    and app firmware.

> 📌 **Tip**
>
> By default, when flash encryption is enabled, some flag bits of eFuse
> will be set, thus disabling some system functions, such as JTAG.
> Keeping these system functions may bring security risks. During test
> phase, if you need to keep these flags, please refer to the
> instructions related to flash encryption in the ESP-IDF Programming
> Guide.

With flash encryption enabled, when the device loads and runs encrypted
bootloader and app firmware, it first automatically decrypts the data
through the hardware module, and then loads the decrypted data into its
iRAM and cache. Furthermore, certain APIs are designed to seamlessly
handle the encryption and decryption of data when performing read and
write operations within encrypted partitions in the flash memory. The
APIs responsible for automatic decryption of data include
`esp_partition_read()`, `esp_flash_read_encrypted()`, and `bootloader_flash_read()`; the APIs responsible for
automatic encryption of data include `esp_partition_write()`,
`esp_flash_write_encrypted()`, and `bootloader_flash_write()`.

Particularly, with flash encryption enabled, during OTA upgrades, the
device receives plaintext data, and then calls `esp_partition_write()`
to automatically encrypt the data before writing it into the flash
memory.

> 📌 **Tip**
>
> For mass-produced devices, OTA upgrade function can be used to update
> app firmware remotely, but not the bootloader. Therefore, it is
> crucial to carefully configure the bootloader settings, including
> parameters like the log level, before enabling flash encryption.
