# Basic Modules of Client Applications

Client applications (e.g., smartphone apps) mainly include the following basic modules:

## Account system and authorisation

It supports account and device authorisation.

## Device control

Smartphone apps are usually equipped with controlling functions. Users can easily connect to IoT devices, and manage them anytime, anywhere through smartphone apps. In a real-world smart home, devices are mostly controlled through smartphone apps, which not only enables intelligent management of devices, but also saves the cost of manpower. Therefore, device control is a must for client applications, such as device function attribute control, scene control, scheduling, remote control, device linkage, etc. Smart home users can also customise scenes according to personal needs, controlling lighting, home appliances, entrance, etc., to make home life more comfortable and convenient. They can time air conditioning, turn off it remotely, set the hallway light on automatically once the door is unlocked, or switch to the “theater” mode with one single button.

## Notification

Client applications update real-time status of IoT devices, and send alerts when devices go abnormal.

## After-sales customer service

Smartphone apps can provide after-sales services for products, to solve problems related to IoT device failures and technical operations in a timely manner.

## Featured functions

To meet the needs of different users, other functions may be added, such as Shake, NFC, GPS, etc. GPS can help set the accuracy of scene operations according to location and distance, while the Shake function allows users to set the commands to be executed for specific device or scene by shaking.
