# Verifying Local Control Functionality using Scripts

After introducing how to create a local control module, this section
will further introduce how to use scripts for verification. Here, we use
the official example `esp_local_ctrl` as an example for verification.

1.  Create a certificate for TLS handshake between the client and the
    server.

<ol type="a">
    <li>
        Generate a <code>rootCA</code> that will be used to sign the server-side certificate, and the client will use it to verify the server-side certificate during the SSL handshake. A passphrase needs to be set to encrypt the generated <code>rootkey.pem</code>.
        <pre><code>$ <b>openssl req -new -x509 -subj "/CN=root" -days 3650 -sha256 -out rootCA.pem -keyout rootkey.pem</b></code></pre>
    </li>
    <li>
        Generate a certificate signing request and its private key <code>prvtkey.pem</code> for the server.
        <pre><code>$ <b>openssl req -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -keyout prvtkey.pem -days 3650 -out server.csr -subj "/CN=my_esp_ctrl_device.local"</b></code></pre>
    </li>
    <li>
        Use the previously generated <code>rootCA</code> to process the server-side certificate signing request and generate the signing certificate <code>cacert.pem</code>. The passphrase set earlier for the encrypted <code>rootkey.pem</code> must be entered in this step.
        <pre><code>$ <b>openssl x509 -req -in server.csr -CA rootCA.pem -CAkey rootkey.pem -CAcreateserial -out cacert.pem -days 500 -sha256</b></code></pre>
        Among the generated certificates, <code>cacert.pem</code> and <code>prvtkey.pem</code> are compiled into the server, and <code>rootkey.pem</code> is suitable for client-side scripts for server-side verification. The directory of the certificate can be set in the script <code>esp_local_ctrl.py</code>.
<pre><code>def get_transport(sel_transport, service_name, check_hostname):
...
    example_path = os.environ['IDF_PATH'] + '/examples/protocols/esp_local_ctrl'
    cert_path = example_path + '/main/certs/rootCA.pem'
...</code></pre>
    </li>
</ol>

2.  Use the following command to connect to the local control server via
    script. If `sec_ver` is 0, it means that `PROTOCOM_SEC0` is set on
    the server.

    <pre><code>$ <b>python esp_local_ctrl.py --sec_ver 0</b></code></pre>

    The script will automatically get the property value, i.e.:
    ```console
    Connecting to my_esp_ctrl_device.local

    ==== Starting Session ====
    ==== Session Established ====

    ==== Available Properties ====
    S.N. Name             Type       Flags            Value
    [1] status           STRING                      {"status": true}
    ```

3.  According to the script prompt, enter the attribute number "1", and
    set the attribute value to `{"status": false}`. Then the script will
    automatically start querying and find that the property value has
    been changed.
    ```console
    Select properties to set (0 to re-read, 'q' to quit) : 1
    Enter value to set for property (status) : {"status": false}
    ==== Available Properties ====
    S.N. Name            Type       Flags            Value           
    [1] status           STRING                      {"status": false}  
    Select properties to set (0 to re-read, 'q' to quit) :
    ```
