# Introduction to Bluetooth
Bluetooth is a short-range wireless communication technology originally
conceived by Ericsson in 1994. The goal of Bluetooth is to facilitate
transmission and sharing of information over a short distance without
cable connections among mobile devices, embedded devices, computer
peripherals, and household appliances. Compared with other wireless
communication technologies, Bluetooth boasts high security and easy
connection.

> 📚 **Further Reading: Why “Bluetooth”?**
>
> The word “Bluetooth” dates back more than a millennia to the Danish King Harald Bluetooth. King Harald is credited with the first unification of Scandinavia. Legend has it that King Harald liked blueberries so much that his teeth were stained blue. So he was called Bluetooth. In 1998, Intel, Nokia, Ericsson, and IBM established a Special Interest Group (SIG) called Bluetooth. The word Bluetooth quickly gained popularity and became synonymous with the short-range wireless communication technology.

Bluetooth adopts decentralised network structure, fast frequency
hopping, and short packet technology to support point-to-point and
point-to-multipoint communication. It works in the 2.4 GHz ISM
(Industrial, Scientific, Medical) band, which is commonly used
worldwide. Bluetooth technology can be divided into two categories,
Bluetooth Classic and Bluetooth Low Energy.

## Bluetooth Classic

Bluetooth Classic (BR/EDR) generally refers to modules that support the
Bluetooth protocol below version 4.0, and are used for the transmission
of large amounts of data such as voice and music. Bluetooth Classic
protocols have different profiles of personal area networks for
different scenarios. Commonly used profiles are Advanced Audio
Distribution Profile (A2DP) for audio communication, Hands-Free
Profile/Head-Set Profile (HFP/HSP) for hands-free devices, Serial Port
Profile (SPP) for text serial port transparent transmission, and Human
Interface Device (HID) for wireless input/output devices.

## Bluetooth Low Energy

Bluetooth Low Energy (LE) is a new type of ultra-low power wireless
communication technology, designed for low-cost, less complicated
wireless body and personal area networks. It is worth mentioning that
Bluetooth LE chips can be powered by button cells. Together with
microsensors, you can use the chips to build embedded or wearable
sensors and applications of sensor networks.

<br></br>
In terms of protocols, Bluetooth 1.1, 1.2, 2.0, 2.1, and 3.0 apply to
Bluetooth Classic, Bluetooth 4.0 supports both Bluetooth Classic and
Bluetooth LE, and all later versions employ Bluetooth LE.