# ðŸ§ Practice: Key Points for Developing with ESP RainMaker

Once the device driver layer has been completed, developers may start to create TSL models and process downlink data using the APIs provided by RainMaker SDK, and enable the ESP RainMaker basic services based on the product definition and requirements.

Section 9.4 of this book will explain the implementation of the LED smart light in RainMaker. During debugging, developers can use the CLI tools in the RainMaker SDK to communicate with the smart light (or call REST APIs from Swagger).

Chapter 10 will elaborate the usage of REST APIs in developing smartphone applications. The OTA upgrades of LED smart lights will be covered in Chapter 11. If developers have enabled the ESP Insights remote monitoring, the ESP RainMaker management backend will display the ESP Insights data. Details will be presented in Chapter 15.

ESP RainMaker supports **private deployment**, which differs from the public RainMaker server in the following ways:

### Claiming Service

To generate certificates in private deployments, it is required to use the RainMaker Admin CLI instead of Claiming. With public server, developers must be given admin rights to implement firmware upgrade, but it is undesirable in commercial deployments. Therefore, neither separate authentication service can be provided for self-claiming, nor admin rights for host driven or assisted claiming.

### Phone apps

In private deployments, applications need to be configured and compiled separately to ensure that the account systems are not interoperable.

### 3rd party logins and voice integration

Developers have to configure separately via Google and Apple Developer accounts to enable 3rd party logins, as well as the Alexa Skill and Google Voice Assistant integration.

> ðŸ’¡ **Tip**
>
> For details about cloud deployment, please visit <https://customer.rainmaker.espressif.com>. In terms of firmware, migration from public server to private server only requires replacing device certificates, which greatly improves migration efficiency and reduces the cost of migration and secondary debugging.