# Setting up ESP-IDF Development Environment on Linux

The GNU development and debugging tools required for the ESP-IDF
development environment are native to the Linux system. Additionally,
the command-line terminal in Linux is powerful and user-friendly, making
it an ideal choice for ESP32-C3 development. You can select your
preferred Linux distribution, but we recommend using Ubuntu or other
Debian-based systems. This section provides guidance on setting up the
ESP-IDF development environment on Ubuntu 20.04.

### 1. Install required packages

Open a new terminal and execute the following command to install all
necessary packages. The command will automatically skip packages that
are already installed.

<pre><code>$ <b>sudo apt-get install git wget flex bison gperf python3 python3-pip python3-setuptools cmake ninja-build ccache libffi-dev libssl-dev dfu-util libusb-1.0-0</b></code></pre>

> 💡 **Tip**
>
>You need to use the administrator account and password for the command above. By default, no information will be displayed when entering the password. Simply press the "Enter" key to continue the procedure.

Git is a key code management tool in ESP-IDF. After successfully setting
up the development environment, you can use the `git log` command to
view all code changes made since the creation of ESP-IDF. In addition,
Git is also used in ESP-IDF to confirm version information, which is
necessary for installing the correct tool chain corresponding to
specific versions. Along with Git, other important system tools include
Python. ESP-IDF incorporates numerous automation scripts written in
Python. Tools such as CMake, Ninja-build, and Ccache are widely used in
C/C++ projects and serve as the default code compilation and building
tools in ESP-IDF. `libusb-1.0-0` and `dfu-util` are the main drivers
used for USB serial communication and firmware burning.

Once the software packages are installed, you can use the
`apt show <package_name>` command to obtain detailed descriptions of
each package. For example, use `apt show git` to print the description
information for the Git tool.

> **Q: What to do if the Python version is not supported?**
>
> **A:** ESP-IDF v4.3 requires a Python version that is not lower than v3.6. For older versions of Ubuntu, please manually download and install a higher version of Python and set Python3 as the default Python environment. You can find detailed instructions by searching for the keyword `update-alternatives python`.

### 2. Download ESP-IDF repository code

Open a terminal and create a folder named `esp` in your home directory
using the `mkdir` command. You can choose a different name for the
folder if you prefer. Use the `cd` command to enter the folder.

<pre><code>$ <b>mkdir -p ~/esp</b>
$ <b>cd ~/esp</b></code></pre>

Use the `git clone` command to download the ESP-IDF repository code, as
shown below:

<pre><code>$ <b>git clone -b v4.3.2 --recursive https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf.git</b></code></pre>

In the command above, the parameter `-b v4.3.2` specifies the version to
download (in this case, version 4.3.2). The parameter `--recursive`
ensures that all sub-repositories of ESP-IDF are downloaded recursively.
Information about sub-repositories can be found in the `.gitmodules`file.

### 3. Install the ESP-IDF development tool chain

Espressif provides an automated script `install.sh` to download and
install the tool chain. This script checks the current ESP-IDF version
and operating system environment, and then downloads and installs
appropriate version of Python tool packages and compilation tool chains.
The default installation path for the tool chain is `~/.espressif`.
All you need to do is to navigate to the `esp-idf` directory and run
`install.sh`.

<pre><code>$ <b>cd ~/esp/esp-idf</b>
$ <b>./install.sh</b></code></pre>

If you install the the tool chain successfully, the terminal will
display:

    All done!

At this point, you have successfully set up the ESP-IDF development
environment.
