# Overview of Secure Boot Scheme

The secure boot scheme is used to protect the legitimacy of firmware
data (including bootloader and app firmware). It uses the RSA digital
signature algorithm to verify the signature attached to the firmware
data before loading and running the new firmware data, thereby verifying
whether the firmware data is legitimate. When the secure boot scheme is
enabled, the device only loads and runs firmware that is authorised by a
specified private key.

Before delving into the implementation principles of secure boot, let's
briefly review the boot process of ESP32-C3 as depicted in Figure 13.11.

<figure align="center">
    <img src="../../Pics/D13Z/13-11.png" width="70%">
    <figcaption>Figure 13.11. ESP32-C3 boot process</figcaption>
</figure>

When the device is powered on, the booting process starts from ROM Boot,
followed by transitioning to the Bootloader, and ultimately reaches the
app firmware. ROM Boot is a fixed, executable program in the on-chip ROM
that remains unalterable. Consequently, the bootloader and app firmware
are the key components requiring protection. Modifying the firmware can
be achieved through two methods: **physical flashing**, where the new
bootloader and app firmware are written to the device's flash memory
using a flashing tool, or **OTA upgrades**, which solely update the app
firmware while excluding the bootloader.

So, here comes the question &ndash; how can we ensure the integrity and
legitimacy of the firmware data, regardless of the method used to
transmit it to the device? To address this query, we will explore two
operational modes of secure boot in Section 13.4.3 and Section 13.4.4:
**software secure boot** and **hardware secure boot**.

> ðŸ“Œ **Tip**
>
> There are two versions of the secure boot scheme, v1 and v2. As
> ESP32-C3 only supports secure boot **v2**, the contents in this
> section are applicable to secure boot v2.
