# Default Build Rules of the Compilation System

### Rules for overriding components with the same name

During the component search process, the compilation system follows a
specific order. It first searches for internal components of ESP-IDF,
then looks for components of the user project, and finally searches for
components in `EXTRA_COMPONENT_DIRS`. In cases where multiple
directories contain components with the same name, the component found
in the last directory will override any previous components with the
same name. This rule allows for the customisation of ESP-IDF components
within the user project, while keeping the original ESP-IDF code intact.

### Rules for including common components by default

As mentioned in section 4.3.2, components need to explicitly specify their dependencies on other components in the `CMakeLists.txt`. However, common components such as`freertos` are automatically included in the build system by default,
even if their dependency relationships are not explicitly defined in the
compilation script. ESP-IDF common components include `freertos`,
`Newlib`, `heap`, `log`, `soc`, `esp_rom`, `esp_common`, `xtensa/riscv`,
and `cxx`. Using these common components avoids repetitive work when
writing `CMakeLists.txt` and make it more concise. 

### Rules for overriding configuration items

Developers can add default configuration parameters by adding a default configuration file named `sdkconfig.defaults` to the project. For example, adding `CONFIG_LOG_DEFAULT_LEVEL_NONE = y` can configure the UART interface to not print log data by default. Furthermore, if specific parameters need to be set for a particular target, a configuration file named `sdkconfig.defaults.TARGET_NAME` can be added, where `TARGET_NAME` can be `esp32s2`, `esp32c3`, and so on. These configuration files are imported into the `sdkconfig` during compilation, with the general default configuration file `sdkconfig.defaults` being imported first, followed by the target-specific configuration file, such as `sdkconfig.defaults.esp32c3`. In cases where there are configuration items with the same name, the latter configuration file will override the former. 