# Introduction to Common Commands
ESP-IDF uses CMake (project configuration tool), Ninja (project building
tool) and esptool (flash tool) in the process of code compilation. Each
tool plays a different role in the compilation, building, and flash
process, and also supports different operating commands. To facilitate
user operation, ESP-IDF adds a unified front-end `idf.py` that allows
the above commands to be called quickly.

Before using `idf.py`, make sure that:

-   The environment variable `IDF_PATH` of ESP-IDF has been added to the
    current terminal.
-   The command execution directory is the root directory of the
    project, which includes the project compilation script
    `CMakeLists.txt`.

The common commands of `idf.py` are as follows:

<!-- idf.py fullclean: mix target with full clean and missing words, missing explanation about idf.py full clean? -->
-   `idf.py --help`: displaying a list of commands and their usage
    instructions.
-   `idf.py set-target <target>`: setting the compilation target, such as replacing `<target>` with `esp32c3`.
-   `idf.py menuconfig`: launching `menuconfig`, a terminal graphical
    configuration tool, which can select or modify configuration
    options, and the configuration results are saved in the `sdkconfig`
    file.
-   `idf.py build`: initiating code compilation. The intermediate files
    and the final executable program generated by the compilation will
    be saved in the `build` directory of the project by default. The
    compilation process is incremental, which means that if only one
    source file is modified, only the modified file will be compiled
    next time.
-   `idf.py clean`: cleaning the intermediate files generated by the
    project compilation. The entire project will be forced to compile in
    the next compilation. Note that the CMake configuration and the
    configuration modifications made by `menuconfig` will not be deleted
    during cleanup.
-   `idf.py fullclean`: deleting the entire `build` directory, including
    all CMake configuration output files. When building the project
    again, CMake will configure the project from scratch. Please note
    that this command will recursively delete all files in the build
    directory, so use it with caution, and the project configuration
    file will not be deleted.
-   `idf.py flash`: flashing the executable program binary file
    generated by `build` to the target ESP32-C3. The options
    `-p <port_name>` and `-b <baud_rate>` are used to set the device
    name of the serial port and the baud rate for flashing,
    respectively. If these two options are not specified, the serial
    port will be automatically detected and the default baud rate will
    be used.
-   `idf.py monitor`: displaying the serial port output of the target
    ESP32-C3. The option `-p` can be used to specify the device name of
    the host-side serial port. During serial port printing, press the
    key combination `Ctrl+]` to exit the monitor.
    
The above commands can also be combined as needed. For example, the
command `idf.py build flash monitor` will perform code compilation, flash, and open the
serial port monitor in sequence.

You can visit <https://bookc3.espressif.com/build-system> to know more
about ESP-IDF compilation system.

