# Introduction to the Compilation Script
When developing a project using ESP-IDF, developers not only
need to write source code but also need to write `CMakeLists.txt` for
the project and components. `CMakeLists.txt` is a text file, also known
as a compilation script, which defines a series of compilation objects,
compilation configuration items, and commands to guide the compilation
process of the source code. The compilation system of ESP-IDF v4.3.2 is
based on CMake. In addition to supporting native CMake functions and
commands, it also defines a series of custom functions, making it much
easier to write compilation scripts.

The compilation scripts in ESP-IDF mainly include the project
compilation script and the component compilation scripts. The
`CMakeLists.txt` in the root directory of the project is called the
project compilation script, which guides the compilation process of the
entire project. A basic project compilation script typically includes
the following three lines:

```cmake
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.5)
include($ENV{IDF_PATH}/tools/cmake/project.cmake)
project(myProject)
```

Among them, the `cmake_minimum_required (VERSION 3.5)` must be placed on
the first line, which is used to indicate the minimum CMake version
number required by the project. Newer versions of CMake are generally
backward compatible with older versions, so adjust the version number
accordingly when using newer CMake commands to ensure compatibility.

`include($ENV {IDF_PATH}/tools/cmake/project.cmake)` imports
pre-defined configuration items and commands of ESP-IDF compilation system,
including the default build rules of the compilation system described in
Section 4.3.3. `project(myProject)` creates the project itself and
specifies its name. This name will be used as the final output binary
file name, i.e., `myProject.elf` and `myProject.bin`.

A project can have multiple components, including the `main` component.
The top-level directory of each component contains a `CMakeLists.txt`
file, which is called the component compilation script. Component
compilation scripts are mainly used to specify component dependencies,
configuration parameters, source code files, and included header files
for compilation. With ESP-IDF's custom function
`idf_component_register`, the minimum required code for a component
compilation script is as follows:

```cmake
idf_component_register(SRCS "src1.c"
                        INCLUDE_DIRS "include"
                        REQUIRES component1)
```

The `SRCS` parameter provides a list of source files in the component,
separated by spaces if there are multiple files. The `INCLUDE_DIRS`
parameter provides a list of public header file directories for the
component, which will be added to the `include` search path for other
components that depend on the current component. The `REQUIRES`
parameter identifies the public component dependencies for the current
component. It is necessary for components to explicitly state which
components they depend on, such as `component2` depending on
`component1`. However, for the `main` component, which depends on all
components by default, the `REQUIRES` parameter can be omitted.

In addition, native CMake commands can also be used in the compilation
script. For example, use the command `set` to set variables, such as
`set(VARIABLE "VALUE")`.