# Introduction to IoT

At the end of the 20th century, with the rise of computer networks and communication technologies, Internet rapidly integrated into people’s lives. As Internet technology continues to mature, the idea of Internet of Things (IoT) was born. Literally, IoT means an Internet where things are connected. While the original Internet breaks the limits of space and time and narrows the distance between “person and person”, IoT makes “things” an important participant, bringing “people” and “things” closer together. In the foreseeable future, IoT is set to become the driving force of the information industry.

So, what is the Internet of Things?

It is hard to accurately define the Internet of Things, as its meaning and scope are constantly evolving. In 1995, Bill Gates first brought up the idea of IoT in his book *The Road Ahead*. Simply put, IoT enables objects to exchange information with each other through Internet. Its ultimate goal is to establish an “Internet of Everything”. This is an early interpretation of IoT, as well as a fantasy of future technology. Thirty years later, with the rapid development of economy and technology, the fantasy is coming into reality. From smart devices, smart homes, smart cities, Internet of Vehicles and wearable devices, to the “metaverse” supported by IoT technologies, new concepts are constantly emerging. In this chapter, we will begin with an explanation of the architecture of Internet of Things, and then introduce the most common IoT application, the smart home, in order to help you get a clear understanding of IoT.
