# Rollback and Anti-Rollback

The main purpose of application rollback is to ensure that the device can be rolled back to the previous version in case of exceptions after an update, without affecting the normal use of the device. When rollback is enabled, the firmware will be marked as a new firmware (`ESP_OTA_IMG_NEW`) once the firmware verification is completed. Upon reboot, the Bootloader will select this firmware and re-mark it as pending-for-verification (`ESP_OTA_IMG_PENDING_VERIFY`). When running the `app_main()` function, two scenarioes may occur:

1.  Normally functioning

    After testing and confirming that everything is working properly,
    the developer calls the `esp_ota_mark_app_valid_cancel_rollback()`
    function to mark the current running firmware as a valid firmware
    (`ESP_ OTA_IMG_VALID`). After that, the firmware can be booted
    without any restrictions.

2.  Encountering serious errors

    It will trigger an automatic secondary reboot, and the Bootloader
    will directly mark the firmware as an aborted firmware
    (`ESP_OTA_IMG_ABORTED`) and roll back to the previous version. After
    self-testing, the developer should confirm that there is an error
    and call `esp_ota_mark_app_invalid_rollback_and_reboot()` to mark
    the running version as an invalid firmware. The firmware will then
    be rolled back to the previous version automatically and cannot be
    rebooted again.

Another function of the secure version number is to prevent the firmware
from rolling back to a lower secure version. When selecting the bootable
application, the Bootloader will check the secure version number
extrally. Only if the secure version number of the firmware is equal to
or higher than that stored in the chip's eFuse, the firmware will be
selected. The new secure version number will be updated after the
firmware status is marked as valid (`ESP_OTA_IMG_VALID`).

Both rollback and anti-rollback can be enabled through `menuconfig` as
follows:

```console
(Top) → Bootloader config
...
...
[*] Enable app rollback support
[*]     Enable app anti-rollback support
(0)         eFuse secure version of app (NEW)
(16)        Size of the eFuse secure version field (NEW)
...
...
```
