# Basic Services

ESP RainMaker services are practical examples that integrate specific
functions to facilitate secondary development and enrich the
functionality of nodes. For example, the scheduling service provides
devices with the offline timing/countdown function; the system service
offers the remote reboot and factory reset functions; the time & time
zone service enables the time zone switching function; the OTA upgrade
service provides the remote update function; and the local control
service allows fast, stable, and secure LAN communication. These
services can be quickly implemented with simple configuration.

## Time & time zone service

Fetching time is one of the most critical tasks for an IoT device after
connecting to the Internet, especially when the scheduling service is
enabled. In ESP RainMaker, there are two important concepts: time and
time zone.

Time is typically fetched using Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP). The
ESP RainMaker SDK provides an abstraction layer over the SNTP component
in ESP-IDF, making it easy for you to synchronise and check time. The
code is as follows:

```c
/*Initialise time synchronisation. This will call the SNTP component internally and set the SNTP server through sntp_server_name passed by esp_rmaker_time_config_t*/
esp_err_t esp_rmaker_time_sync_init(esp_rmaker_time_config_t *config);

//Check if time has been synchronised by comparison with the standard time 1546300800
bool esp_rmaker_time_check(void);

//Wait for time to be synchronised
esp_err_t esp_rmaker_time_wait_for_sync(uint32_t ticks_to_wait);
```

As countries and regions in different longitudes have different local
times and time zones, the `TZ` environment variable and the `tz_set()`
function are provided by ESP-IDF to set the time zone. RainMaker
provides an abstraction layer over this and provides multiple ways of
setting it. For example:

1. Using the **C API**.

    ```c
    //Set time zone using the timezone region string
    esp_err_t esp_rmaker_time_set_timezone(const char *tz);

    //Set time zone using the POSIX format
    esp_err_t esp_rmaker_time_set_timezone_posix(const char *tz_posix);
    ```

2. Modifying `Default Timezone` in `menuconfig`. To use this method,
you need to have some basic understanding of ESP-IDF. For more
information, please refer to Chapter 4. The configuration for this
method is as follows:

    ```console
     (Top) → Component config → ESP RainMaker Common
        Espressif IoT Development Framework Configuration
    ...
    (Asia/Shanghai) Default Timezone
    ...
    ```

3. Setting time zone directly on the **client side** via the time
zone service. To enable this service, call the following function on the
device side:

    ```c
    esp_err_t esp_rmaker_timezone_service_enable(void);
    ```

## Scheduling service

The scheduling service performs periodic modifications to device
parameters. For example, if you need to turn on a light at 7pm and turn
it off at 11pm every day, this service can spare you from manually
turning it on and off. After configured, this service runs independently
on the device and does not rely on the network, which means that the
device can perform the configured operation correctly even when the
device is disconnected from the network. To enable this service, call
the following function on the device side:

```c
esp_err_t esp_rmaker_schedule_enable(void);
```

## OTA upgrade service

ESP RainMaker provides the OTA upgrade service to update firmware. You
only need to call a simple API to enable it. There are two methods of
performing OTA upgrade.

### OTA upgrade using parameters

This is the simplest way for developers to upgrade firmware OTA. You only need to upload the firmware to any secure web server and provide the URL to the node. This method can be triggered from the ESP RainMaker CLI client. The `otaupgrade` command in the CLI tool is used to complete the upgrade, as shown below:

```c
esp_rmaker_ota_config_t ota_config = {
    .server_cert = ESP_RMAKER_OTA_DEFAULT_SERVER_CERT,
};
esp_rmaker_ota_enable(&ota_config, OTA_USING_PARAMS);
```

### OTA upgrade using MQTT topics

This is a more advanced method available to admin users to upgrade firmware OTA. They need to upload the firmware to the dashboard and create a task there to enable the OTA upgrade. The device will receive the OTA upgrade URL and report the upgrade progress over MQTT. The code is as follows:

```c
esp_rmaker_ota_config_t ota_config = {
    .server_cert = ESP_RMAKER_OTA_DEFAULT_SERVER_CERT,
};
esp_rmaker_ota_enable(&ota_config, OTA_USING_TOPICS);
```

## Local control service

Besides remote control, ESP RainMaker also enables the client to locally
control the nodes that are on the same Wi-Fi network as the client. This
makes the entire process of control and response faster and more
reliable. ESP-IDF provides a component called ESP Local Control, which
uses mDNS-based discovery and HTTP-based control. It is now integrated
into the ESP RainMaker SDK.

Local control does not require adding a service to the node
configuration message. It protects data using asymmetric encryption
algorithms and transmits the Proof of possession (PoP) to the app
through the local control service. The smartphone app completes
encryption using the PoP.

```c
# Enable local control
CONFIG_ESP_RMAKER_LOCAL_CTRL_ENABLE=y

# Enable local control encryption
CONFIG_ESP_RMAKER_LOCAL_CTRL_SECURITY_1=y
```

## System service

ESP RainMaker presets a set of system services for factory reset and
remote reboot. Smartphone apps can use these services to erase the
network configuration information on the device and unmap users from the
devices. To enable this service, call the following API on the device
side:

```c
esp_err_t esp_rmaker_system_service_enable(esp_rmaker_system_serv_config_t *config)
```
