# Introduction to Remote Control

What is remote control? As the name suggests, remote control refers to
the behaviour of one device (such as smartphones, computers, or other
network devices) controlling another device through a wide area network
(WAN). It is not restricted by region. For example, you can control
smart lights at home through your smartphone in the workplace. In
general, both the remotely-controlling device and the
remotely-controlled device need to be connected to the cloud server, and
the commands sent by the controlling device are transmitted to the
controlled device over the cloud server.

Similar to local control (covered in Chapter 8), remote control is also
a way of data communication, but it is over WAN other than LAN. In local
control, the server can be the controlled device itself, or a host in
LAN; the controlling device (such as mobile phones or computers) must be
in the same LAN as the server, which is a limitation. In remote control,
the server is generally a cloud server (several large-scale cloud server
providers are Alibaba Cloud, Amazon Cloud, Tencent Cloud, etc.), the
controlling device and the controlled device need to be connected to the
cloud server, and the data forwarding and storage are handled by the
cloud server.

The advantage of remote control is that the control is flexible and can
break through the limitation of space. However, compared with local
control, it requires cloud services and network traffic, thus more
costly. Moreover, it usually has higher latency, resulting in a greater
risk of leaking data.

As the implementation principle and components of ESP RainMaker covered
in Section 3.2 indicate, in remote control, both the controlling device
(smartphone) and the controlled device (such as ESP32-C3) are directly
connected to the cloud server, which facilitates the transfer of data
between the devices. As a result, it is essential to have a thorough
understanding of how these devices communicate with the cloud server.

Remote control costs more than local control as it requires cloud
servers, but it is more convenient to remotely view the operating status
of the controlled device. Both have their advantages and disadvantages.
At present, most of the IoT devices on the market can be connected to
various clouds. For instance, the products of Xiaomi, Alibaba, and JD
are connected to their own cloud platform. The user only needs to
download the corresponding app and perform the provision and binding to
view and control their IoT devices.

If your smartphone and the controlled device are on the same LAN, local
control is a better option. Otherwise, remote control has to be used.
Local control has its own use scenarios and advantages. The advantages
of both should be fully utilized to develop the most suitable IoT
control technology.
