# Introduction to Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)

DTLS is a UDP-based protocol that serves the application layer. TLS
protocol cannot guarantee the security of data transmitted by UDP.
Therefore, the DTLS protocol has been extended on the existing TLS
protocol architecture to support UDP, and becomes a version of TLS
protocol that supports data packet transmission. DTLS 1.0 is based on
TLS 1.1, and DTLS 1.2 is based on TLS 1.2. The encryption algorithm,
certificate, and encryption process of the DTLS protocol are basically
the same as those of the TLS protocol, thus will not be described in
this section.

### 1. Differences Between DTLS and TLS

The working principle of the DTLS protocol is basically the same as that
of the TLS protocol, except for the following differences:

-   In the handshake stage, DTLS protocol has added the Cookie
    mechanism. The DTLS protocol has added a Cookie mechanism in version
    1.0, which is used by the server to verify the client, and can avoid
    DoS attacks. When the client sends the Client Hello message to the
    server, the server does not directly reply to the Server Hello
    message to carry out the handshake process. Instead, the server
    replies the Hello Verify Request message, which carries the Cookie
    value, to the client. When the client receives the message, it will
    write the Cookie value into the Client Hello message and resend it
    to the server. After receiving it, the server checks the local
    Cookie list to determine whether a handshake is required.

-   DLTS supports the retransmission mechanism. Since the UDP protocol
    itself does not support retransmission like the TCP protocol, the
    DTLS protocol introduces a retransmission mechanism. Taking the
    above Client Hello message as an example, after the client sends the
    Client Hello message, the client will start a timer to receive the
    Hello Verify Request message replied by the server; if the server
    does not reply within a certain period of time, the client will
    resend the Client Hello message. Similarly, once a message is sent,
    the server will activate a timer to monitor for timeouts and
    determine if the message needs to be resent.

-   DLTS supports orderly reception. UDP does not guarantee the order of
    delivered packets. In contrast, DTLS protocol has added a
    `message_seq` field in the handshake message. The receiver will
    provide a receiving buffer to receive out-of-order messages
    (similarly to TCP), and process the messages in order according to
    the `message_seq` field.

-   DLTS supports packet size limitation. UDP is a packet-oriented
    protocol, and TCP is a stream-oriented protocol. TCP supports packet
    fragmentation and reassembly. However, when a UDP message exceeds
    the maximum transmission unit (MTU) of the link layer, it may be
    forcibly fragmented at the IP layer. The receiver then needs to
    process the fragmented packet based on the IP header and reassemble
    the original data. If one packet is lost, the entire UDP message
    will be invalid. Therefore, in DTLS protocol, the handshake messages
    are segmented on top of UDP. This is done by adding the
    `fragment_offset` field and `fragment_length` field to the handshake
    message, which represent the offset of this message relative to the
    beginning of the message and the length of this message,
    respectively.

### 2. Creating a CoAP+DTLS server with ESP-IDF

The following example introduces how to create a CoAP+DTLS server. This
example is actually the same as the CoAP example introduced in Section
8.3.4, except that two functions are added to support the DTLS protocol.
The function `coap_context_set_psk()` is used to set the PSK encryption
key in the DTLS protocol, and can also use certificate (PKI) for the
DTLS protocol handshake. The `coap_new_endpoint(ctx, &serv_addr, COAP_PROTO_DTLS)` function indicates that the node supports the DTLS protocol.

> ðŸ“ **Source code**
>
> For the complete example code of `coap_context_set_psk()`, please refer to [`book-esp32c3-iot-projects/test_case/coap`](https://github.com/espressif/book-esp32c3-iot-projects/tree/main/test_case/coap).
> For instructions on how to use `PKI`, please see [`esp-idf/examples/protocols/coap_server`](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/tree/master/examples/protocols/coap_server).

```c
static char psk_key[] = "esp32c3_key";
static void esp_create_coaps_server(void)
{
    coap_context_t *ctx = NULL;
    coap_address_t serv_addr;
    coap_resource_t *resource = NULL;
    while (1) {
        coap_endpoint_t *ep = NULL;
        unsigned wait_ms;

        //Create a CoAP server socket
        coap_address_init(&serv_addr);
        serv_addr.addr.sin6.sin6_family = AF_INET6;
        serv_addr.addr.sin6.sin6_port = htons(COAP_DEFAULT_PORT);

        //Create CoAP ctx
        ctx = coap_new_context(NULL);
        if (!ctx) {
            ESP_LOGE(TAG, "coap_new_context() failed");
            continue;
        }

        //Add PSK encryption key
        coap_context_set_psk(ctx, "CoAP",
                            (const uint8_t *)psk_key,
                            sizeof(psk_key) - 1);

        //Set CoAP node
        ep = coap_new_endpoint(ctx, &serv_addr, COAP_PROTO_UDP);
        if (!ep) {
            ESP_LOGE(TAG, "udp: coap_new_endpoint() failed");
            goto clean_up;
        }

        //Add DTLS node and port
        if (coap_dtls_is_supported()) {
            serv_addr.addr.sin6.sin6_port = htons(COAPS_DEFAULT_PORT);
            ep = coap_new_endpoint(ctx, &serv_addr, COAP_PROTO_DTLS);
            if (!ep) {
                ESP_LOGE(TAG, "dtls: coap_new_endpoint() failed");
                goto clean_up;
            } else {
                ESP_LOGI(TAG, "MbedTLS (D)TLS Server Mode not configured");
            }
        }

        //Set CoAP resource URI
        resource = coap_resource_init(coap_make_str_const("light"), 0);
        if (!resource) {
            ESP_LOGE(TAG, "coap_resource_init() failed");
            goto clean_up;
        }

        //Register callback functions for GET and PUT method corresponding to CoAP resource URI
        coap_register_handler(resource, COAP_REQUEST_GET, esp_coap_get);
        coap_register_handler(resource, COAP_REQUEST_PUT, esp_coap_put);
     
        //Set CoAP GET resource visible
        coap_resource_set_get_observable(resource, 1);

        //Add resource to CoAP ctx
        coap_add_resource(ctx, resource);
        wait_ms = COAP_RESOURCE_CHECK_TIME * 1000;
        while (1) {
            //Wait to receive CoAP data
            int result = coap_run_once(ctx, wait_ms);
            if (result < 0) {
                break;
            } else if (result && (unsigned)result < wait_ms) {
                //Decrease waiting time
                wait_ms -= result;
            } else {
                //Reset waiting time
                wait_ms = COAP_RESOURCE_CHECK_TIME * 1000;
            }
        }
    }
clean_up:
    coap_free_context(ctx);
    coap_cleanup();
}
```
