# Getting Started with ESP Insights in the esp-insights Project

To get started with ESP Insights in the `esp-insights` project, please
follow the steps below:

### 1. Clone the latest esp-RainMaker.

Based on the previous introduction to the ESP RainMaker IoT cloud
platform, pull the project code of `esp-RainMaker`, and `esp-insights`
will be under the project directory `esp-RainMaker/components` as a
submodule.

<pre><code>$ <b>git clone --recursive https://github.com/espressif/esp-RainMaker.git</b></code></pre>

### 2. Modify `CMakeLists.txt` of esp-RainMaker.

Add `esp-insight` as a component to the `esp-RainMaker` project,
ensuring that the functions of `esp-insight` can be called under the
`esp-RainMaker` project. In the current directory of building project,
modify the following command in `CMakeLists.txt`:

```c
set(EXTRA_COMPONENT_DIRS ${RMAKER_PATH}/components ${RMAKER_PATH}/examples/common)
```

to:

```c
set(EXTRA_COMPONENT_DIRS ${RMAKER_PATH}/components ${RMAKER_PATH}/examples/common ${RMAKER_PATH}/components/esp-insights/components)
```

### 3. Implement the features of ESP Insights.

The code for ESP Insights is already wrapped by the `examples/common/app_insights` component. Users only need to include `app_insights.h` in their code and call `app_insights_enable()` before calling `esp_rmaker_start()`. However, this component is controlled by the macro `CONFIG_ESP_INSIGHTS_ENABLED`, which is disabled by default. Users can enable this feature in default configuration or the image configuration interface (use the `idf.py` tool to open the menu `menuconfig → Component config → ESP Insights → Enable ESP Insights`).

### 4. Build and flash.

Run the following command to build and flash:

<pre><code>$ <b>idf.py build flash monitor</b></code></pre>

When the build completes, the following log will be printed as an
`led_light-v1.0.zip` will be generated in the `build` directory for
future use.

```console
======== Generating insights firmware package build/led_light-v1.0.zip ========
led_light-v1.0
led_light-v1.0/led_light.bin
led_light-v1.0/sdkconfig
led_light-v1.0/partition_table
led_light-v1.0/partition_table/partition-table.bin
led_light-v1.0/bootloader
led_light-v1.0/bootloader/bootloader.bin
led_light-v1.0/partitions.csv
led_light-v1.0/project_build_config.json
led_light-v1.0/led_light.map
led_light-v1.0/led_light.elf
led_light-v1.0/project_description.json
```

### 5. Claim for the ESP RainMaker IoT cloud platform.

As developers need the admin access for the ESP Insights cloud, claiming
is thus required. For specific claiming details, please refer to Chapter
3.

### 6. Log in to the Dashboard of ESP RainMaker.

Once the firmware and claiming operations are all completed, the device
is ready to connect to ESP RainMaker. Now, users can log in to the ESP
RainMaker interface (<https://dashboard.RainMaker.espressif.com/>), and
click the node corresponding to the device to enter its Dashboard.

### 7. Upload the generated zip file.

To better understand the diagnostics information, users also need to
upload the previously generated zip file `led_light-v1.0.zip` to
`Firmware Images` on the left navigation bar of the ESP RainMaker
interface, as the zip file contains binary files, elf files, mapping
files, and other useful information for analysis.

Even without changes in code, commands such as `idf.py build` and
`idf.py flash` will conduct rebuilds to generate new firmware. Thus, it
is important to ensure that the firmware running on the device
corresponds to the zip file package uploaded to the ESP RainMaker
platform. Otherwise, ESP RainMaker may report errors when processing and
analysing the information reported by the device.
