# Deep-sleep mode

Compared to Light-sleep mode, ESP32-C3 cannot automatically enter
Deep-sleep mode. Instead, users must call `esp_deep_sleep_start()`
function to send the chip into Deep-sleep mode. In Deep-sleep mode,
ESP32-C3 does not maintain Wi-Fi and Bluetooth LE connections, and shuts
down the CPU, most of the RAM and all digital peripherals clocked by the
APB_CLK. However, RTC clock controllers, RTC peripherals, and RTC fast
memory can still work. After waking up from Deep-sleep mode, ESP32-C3's
CPU will reset and restart.

Deep-sleep can be used for low-power sensor applications, or application
scenarios where data transmission is not required for most of the time.
ESP32-C3 can wake up from Deep-sleep mode every once in a while to
measure and upload data, after which it returns to Deep-sleep mode.
Alternatively, the chip can also store data from multiple measurements
in RTC Memory (RTC Memory can still save data in Deep-sleep mode) and
send the data out at once.

## Wakeup sources in Deep-sleep mode

For Deep-sleep mode, ESP32-C3 can use GPIO or timer as wakeup sources
and supports up to two wakeup sources at the same time. In this case,
ESP32-C3 will be woken up when either of the wakeup sources is
triggered. Before entering Deep-sleep mode, users can either configure
the wake source at any time using the corresponding API or disable a
wake source using `esp_sleep_disable_wakeup_source()` function. After
waking up, users can determine which wakeup source was responsible for
waking up the chip by calling `esp_sleep_get_wakeup_cause()` function.

### GPIO wakeup

Any GPIO can be used as the external input to wake up the chip from
Deep-sleep mode. Each pin can be individually configured to trigger
wakeup on high or low level using `esp_deep_sleep_enable_gpio_wakeup()`
function. It is important to note that GPIO wakeup is only available for
RTC IO.

### Timer wakeup

The RTC controller has a built-in timer which can be used to wake up the
chip after a predefined amount of time. Time is specified at microsecond
precision, but the actual resolution depends on the clock source
selected for `RTC_SLOW_CLK`. When Timer wakeup is enabled, RTC
peripherals or RTC memory do not need to be turned on during ESP32-C3
sleep, and Timer wakeup can be enabled by calling
`esp_sleep_enable_timer_wakeup()`.

## Instructions on how to enter Deep-sleep mode

After configuring the wakeup source, users can call `esp_deep_sleep_start()` to enter Deep-sleep mode. When no wakeup source
is enabled, ESP32-C3 can still enter Deep-sleep mode. However, in this
case, ESP32-C3 will remain in Deep-sleep mode until an external chip
reset.

The following code shows how to configure ESP32-C3's Deep-sleep mode.

-   Wakeup source: GPIO and timer;

-   GPIO4 pin is configured to wake up on high level;

-   The predefined amount of time to wake up the chip using a timer is
    20 seconds.

Considering that the GPIO4 pin wakes up ESP32-C3 at a high level, it is
necessary to add a pull-down resistor in your hardware circuits or
software configuration to avoid false wakeup.

```c
#define DEFAULT_WAKEUP_PIN    4
#define DEFAULT_WAKEUP_LEVEL  ESP_GPIO_WAKEUP_GPIO_HIGH

const gpio_config_t config = {
    .pin_bit_mask = BIT(DEFAULT_WAKEUP_PIN),
    .mode         = GPIO_MODE_INPUT,
};
ESP_ERROR_CHECK(gpio_config(&config));
ESP_ERROR_CHECK(esp_deep_sleep_enable_gpio_wakeup(BIT(DEFAULT_WAKEUP_PIN), DEFAULT_WAKEUP_LEVEL));
ESP_LOGI("TAG", "Enabling GPIO wakeup on pins GPIO%d\n", DEFAULT_WAKEUP_PIN);

const int wakeup_time_sec = 20;
ESP_LOGI("TAG", "Enabling timer wakeup, %ds\n", wakeup_time_sec);
esp_sleep_enable_timer_wakeup(wakeup_time_sec * 1000000);

/*Enter deep sleep*/
esp_deep_sleep_start();
```
