# Protocol Comparison

Chapter 8 introduced protocols such as TCP, HTTP, UDP, and CoAP, which
can facilitate local control. In addition, they can also be used for
remote control.

## MQTT vs. TCP

MQTT is an application protocol based on the TCP protocol. Both can be
used for remote data communication. For socket programming, TCP requires
users to develop their own application protocols, which have limited
usability in the current environment of IoT interconnection. On the
other hand, MQTT is a standardized lightweight protocol for IoT and is
widely used by most cloud servers, such as Alibaba Cloud and Amazon
Cloud, making it advantageous for product integration.

## MQTT vs. HTTP

Both are client-server application protocols based on TCP. However,
compared to MQTT, HTTP has a much larger overhead in message size, and
it is generally difficult for an HTTP server to initiate data push to
clients, which may not meet the requirements of remote control in IoT.
In cases where only one-way transmission from clients to the server is
needed, HTTP protocol can be used.

## MQTT vs. CoAP

Similar to HTTP, CoAP adopts the REST model where the server creates
resources in URI format and clients access these resources using GET,
PUT, POST, and DELETE methods. Besides, CoAP also has a similar protocol
style to HTTP, but it requires fewer device resources and network
overheads, making it suitable for IoT. However, CoAP may not be a good
choice for remote control. If smartphones send control commands for
remote control, the architecture may require CoAP + Web + Database +
App. When CoAP protocol is used, control commands must pass through the
Database before reaching the device, because CoAP is connectionless.
When smartphones send control commands, the server will first store the
control commands in the Database, and the device will request the server
via GET method to check if there are any control commands, and then
decide whether to operate. On the other hand, MQTT is
connection-oriented, and the server will forward the control commands
from smartphones to all subscribed devices without storing them. Only
MQTT client + MQTT server + App is needed to implement remote control,
making MQTT more advantageous in terms of deployment.
