# Meaning and Function of Certificates

## Introduction

Certificates, also known as public-key certificates (PKC), contain
personal information such as user name, organization, email, the user's
public key, and the digital signature of a certification authority or
certifying authority (CA). You can think of a certificate as a personal
identity card, with the public key serving as the card number,
identifying which individual it represents. A CA is like a police
station that issues the card. It can be an international organization,
government entity, for-profit company, or general individual.

## Certificate generation

1.  User A generates a private-public key pair locally using an
    asymmetric encryption algorithm.

2.  User A submits the locally generated public key and certificate
    information file to a CA for digital signing and certificate
    generation.

3.  The CA generates a private-public key pair locally, which is the
    `ca.key` mentioned in a later example. The CA uses its private key
    to digitally sign User A's public key and issues the certificate.

4.  User B obtains the CA's public key, which is publicly available, and
    uses it to verify the legitimacy of the digital signature in User
    A's certificate. If the verification is successful, it is confirmed
    that the public key in User A's certificate belongs to User A.

5.  To send data to User A, User B only needs to encrypt the data using
    the public key in User A's certificate and send it. User A then
    decrypts the data with its own private key.

So far, we have covered the generation of User A's certificate and the
data communication process between User A and User B. However, it only
involves one-way authentication of TLS certificate &ndash; User A is like the
server side, User B is like the client side, and this process can be
considered as the client's verification of the server's certificate. A
similar process is followed for the server's verification of the
client's certificate.

## Certificate function

As indicated by the above certificate generation process, certificates
are a means to verify the legitimacy of the peer device. Only when it is
legitimate can the transmitted data be secured without the risk of
being leaked.

## Certificate standard

Certificates adopt the common format X.509. All certificates comply with
the ITU-T X.509 international standard. The structure of X.509
certificates is described and encoded using Abstract Syntax Notation One
(ASN1).

A certificate typically consists of the following fields:

-   **Version Number**: the version number of the specification. The
    current version is 3, corresponding to the value 0x2.

-   **Serial Number**: the unique serial number maintained by the CA and
    assigned to each certificate for tracking and revocation. The
    maximum size is 20 bytes.

-   **Signature Algorithm**: the algorithm used for digital signatures.

-   **Validity**: the validity period of the certificate, including
    start and end dates.

-   **Subject**: the identifier information of the certificate holder,
    namely the personal information mentioned above.

-   **Subject Public Key Info**: protected information related to the
    public key, including the public key algorithm and subject unique
    identifier.

## Certificate format

Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM) is a common format for X.509 certificates.
PEM files are usually seen with the extensions `.crt` or `.cer` (for
certificates), `.key` (for private keys), and `.csr` (for certificate
signing request).

The PEM file is a text file that usually contains headers, footers, and
the content blocks encoded in Base64.
