# Dynamic Frequency Scaling

When power management is enabled, the peripheral bus (APB) frequency and
CPU frequency may change during operation. This process is called
Dynamic Frequency Scaling (DFS). When DFS is enabled, the APB frequency
can be changed multiple times within a single RTOS tick. The APB
frequency change does not affect the operation of some peripherals,
while other peripherals may have issues. For example, Timer Group
peripheral timers will keep counting, however, the speed at which they
count will change proportionally to the APB frequency. Therefore,
developers should understand which peripherals will be affected by DFS
and which peripherals will not. With the continuous improvement of
ESP-IDF development, more and more peripheral drivers will not be
affected by DFS.

The following peripherals are not affected by DFS when clocked from a
specific clock source:

-   **UART**: If `REF_TICK` is used as the clock source, UART is not
    affected by DFS. Otherwise, it will be affected by DFS.

-   **LEDC**: If `REF_TICK` is used as the clock source, LEDC is not
    affected by DFS. Otherwise, it will be affected by DFS.

-   **RMT**: If `REF_TICK` or XTAL is used as the clock source, RMT is
    not affected by DFS.

Currently, the following peripheral drivers are not affected by DFS.
These drivers will acquire the `ESP_PM_APB_FREQ_MAX` lock for the
duration of the transaction and release the lock upon the completion of
the the transaction automatically.

-   **SPI host**

-   **I2C**

-   **I2S** (if an APLL clock is used, I2S acquires
    `ESP_PM_NO_LIGHT_SLEEP` power management lock.)

-   **SPI slave**: between calls to `spi_slave_initialize()` and
    `spi_slave_free()`, SPI slave is not affected by DFS.

-   **Wi-Fi**: between calls to `esp_wifi_start()` and
    `esp_wifi_stop()`, Wi-Fi is not affected by DFS. In Modem-sleep
    mode, when Wi-Fi is enabled, the chip releases the
    `ESP_PM_APB_FREQ_MAX` power management lock upon turning off the RF
    module.

-   **TWAI**: between calls to `twai_driver_install()` and
    `twai_driver_uninstall()`, TWAI is not affected by DFS.

-   **Bluetooth**: between calls to `esp_bt_controller_enable()` and
    `esp_bt_controller_disable()`, Bluetooth is not affected by DFS. In
    Modem-sleep mode, when Bluetooth is enabled, the chip releases
    `ESP_PM_APB_FREQ_MAX` power management lock upon turning off the RF
    module, but still holds the `ESP_PM_NO_LIGHT_SLEEP` power management
    lock unless `CONFIG_BTDM_CTRL_LOW_POWER_CLOCK` is configured to the
    32 kHz external crystal oscillator.

The following peripheral drivers are affected by DFS, so applications
need to acquire or release locks themselves.

-   PCNT
-   Sigma-delta
-   Timer Group
